readme.md, before:

The OSCAL Model Reference can be found at, https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL/reference/latest/complete/

# OSCAL Policy Administration Library (opal)
Provides a simple web application for managing System Security Plans and related documents.  The data model is based on the OSCAL standard and objects can be imported and exported in OSCAL compliant JSON. 

The OSCAL Model Reference can be found at, https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL/reference/latest/complete/

1. Python >=3.8
2. apache
3. postgres client if using a postgres database

# Deployment Instructions
## Running a local development version using sqlite
1. Clone the repository to your local directory\
   `git clone https://github.com/eop-omb/opal.git`
1. It is recommended to run the application from a virtual environment. To do so navigate to the application directory in a terminal and enter the following commands:\
   `python3 -m venv venv`\
   `source venv/bin/activate`
1. Install the required python modules by running:\
   `pip install -r requirements.txt`
1. Run the initial migration to create the database objects:\
   `python manage.py makemigrations`\
   `python manage.py migrate`
1. Create a superuser:\
   `python manage.py createsuperuser`
1. Start the Server\
   `python manage.py runserver`
## Start the app in a docker container using sqlite
1. Clone the repository to your local directory
   `git clone https://gitlab.max.gov/max-security/opal.git`
3. Build the image\
    `docker build -t opal .`
1. Run the container\
    `docker run --rm -it --name opal -p 8000:8000 -e ENVIRONMENT=development -e DEBUG=True -e ALLOWED_HOSTS=* -e DATABASE=sqlite -e DB_HOST=localhost -e DB_NAME=db.sqlite3 -e LOG_LEVEL=INFO -e SAML_CLIENT_ID="" -e SAML_CLIENT_SECRET="" opal`
    
Note: A default superuser account is created in the docker container. You should immedietly change the password and create additional secure superuser accounts.

Username: admin\
Password: admin
## Setting environment variables
OPAL is designed to run well in a containerized environment. It is recommended to set any desired environment variables using your chosen container orchestration solution (kubernetes, docker-compose, etc.).  You can also set environment variables in a .env file which should be placed in the opal subdirectory. The available environment variables are: \

   "ENVIRONMENT", #development or production \
   "OPAL_SECRET_KEY", #secret key used to create sessions. If excluded a random key will be generated each time the app starts\
   "DEBUG", #True of False \
   "ALLOWED_HOSTS", #Must be a comma seperated list of acceptable host names to use when accessing the application. Use '*' for all \
   "DATABASE", #sqlite or postgres \
   "db_password", #can be blank if using sqlite \
   "DB_NAME", #name of db in postgres, can be blank if using sqlite \
   "db_user", #can be blank if using sqlite \
   "DB_HOST", #can be blank if using sqlite \
   "db_port", #can be blank if using sqlite \
   "LOG_LEVEL", #can be DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR, or CRITICAL
   "SAML_CLIENT_ID", #Client ID provided by your SAML IDP
   "SAML_CLIENT_SECRET", #Secret provided by your SAML IDP

Commit message:

adding default values for most environment variables

readme.md, after:

The OSCAL Model Reference can be found at, https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL/reference/latest/complete/

# OSCAL Policy Administration Library (opal)
Provides a simple web application for managing System Security Plans and related documents.  The data model is based on the OSCAL standard and objects can be imported and exported in OSCAL compliant JSON. 

The OSCAL Model Reference can be found at, https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL/reference/latest/complete/

1. Python >=3.8
2. apache
3. postgres client if using a postgres database

# Deployment Instructions
## Running a local development version using sqlite
1. Clone the repository to your local directory\
   `git clone https://github.com/eop-omb/opal.git`
1. It is recommended to run the application from a virtual environment. To do so navigate to the application directory in a terminal and enter the following commands:\
   `python3 -m venv venv`\
   `source venv/bin/activate`
1. Install the required python modules by running:\
   `pip install -r requirements.txt`
1. Run the initial migration to create the database objects:\
   `python manage.py makemigrations`\
   `python manage.py migrate`
1. Create a superuser:\
   `python manage.py createsuperuser`
1. Start the Server\
   `python manage.py runserver`
## Start the app in a docker container using sqlite
1. Clone the repository to your local directory
   `git clone https://gitlab.max.gov/max-security/opal.git`
3. Build the image\
    `docker build -t opal .`
1. Run the container\
    `docker run --rm -it --name opal -p 8000:8000 -e DB_HOST=localhost -e DB_NAME=db.sqlite3 -e LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG -e opal`
    

## Setting environment variables
OPAL is designed to run well in a containerized environment. It is recommended to set any desired environment variables using your chosen container orchestration solution (kubernetes, docker-compose, etc.).  You can also set environment variables in a .env file which should be placed in the opal subdirectory. The available environment variables are: 


| Variable | Values | Description |
|-------------|--------------------------------|----------------------------|
| ENVIRONMENT | production| If omitted defaults to "development" |
| OPAL_SECRET_KEY | a valid 50 character django secret key | secret key used to create sessions. If excluded a random key will be generated each time the app starts |
| DEBUG | True or False | enables some debugging features. If omitted defaults to True |
| ALLOWED_HOSTS |  comma seperated list of FQDNs or hostnames | defines the valid FQDNs that the application will respond on.  Can be a list such as "localhost,127.0.0.1", If omitted defaults to * which will respond to any hostname. |
 | DATABASE | sqlite or postgres | defines the kind of database to use.  Defaults to sqlite |
| DB_NAME | name of db in postgres or filename if using sqlite | can be blank if using sqlite |
| DB_PASSWORD | | can be blank or omitted if using sqlite |
| DB_USER | username the app should use to connect to the database | can be blank if using sqlite |
| DB_HOST | | can be blank if using sqlite |
| DB_PORT | | can be blank if using sqlite |
|LOG_LEVEL | DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR, or CRITICAL | Defaults to INFO |
|ENABLE_SAML | True or False | set this to True to enable SAML Authentication. If enabled, the following additional variables are required: |
| OIDC_RP_CLIENT_ID | | client ID from your SAML Provider |
| OIDC_RP_CLIENT_SECRET | | Secret provided by your SAML IDP |
